# RFC-AO-090 — Chapter 9: The Law of Intended Consequences

Author: Kevin “Andie” Williams  
Status: Draft import  
Project: You Have Another Option  
Source: You Have Another Option_type_I.docx  
Chapter: 9  
RFC: 090  
Section: ABA History and Problems  

---

## Chapter 9: The Law of Intended Consequences

Therefore, ABA techniques are not only counterproductive to Autistic
health and longevity but are also harmful for the Autistic people
\*not\* being treated through ABA techniques *and society*. How does
*that* work? When a group of people identify experts or authorities,
regardless of country or culture, the opinions rendered by those
authorities carry great and transitive weight. This is the desired
effect, in that they sway the minds of those in direct contact of the
experts message.

Say you’re in court. A judge orders you to pay a fine for a speeding
ticket, so you pay the fine. Or face the consequences, likely in jail.
Auto insurance rates go up, so it’s a double and recurring penalty. It’s
*behaviorally contagious* in that every person who hears the story of
how expensive the speeding ticket tends to be a bit more careful. They
go the same speed as everyone else. Not following the law exactly, but
the general idea is followed: slow down. In the case of expensive
speeding tickets, this is a good thing. In the case of good medicine,
this can also be a good thing.

So, doctors and psychologists refer Autistic kids to ABA technicians,
acting as a type of feeder system: like elementary schools do to junior
high schools and then to high schools. ABA technicians abuse kids
through aversives, and they simultaneously teach the parents to be
passive enablers, reinforcing the abuse and neglect. At minimum they
teach that Autistic people don’t have the right to a point of view or
any right to an accurate sense of their own feelings and behaviors.
That’s the point. It’s behaviorally contagious in that the experts have
spoken. Now you have an entire society mistreating, neglecting and
gaslighting an entire population as if they were in an ABA
indoctrination room. Autistic child *or adult*. Autistic parents
learning from parents of kids treated by ABA follow suit. *Everyone*
follows suit, in a weaponized form of bigotry and discrimination known
as *Ableism*. Also known as a knock-on effect or the Law of Unintended
Consequences. Or, if you deeply listen to Lovaas own words, this was
*entirely* the intended effect<sup>126</sup>. Domination of individuals
by individuals in a chain reaction *forever* to bring about a bottom-up
utopia. Utopias that of course often all end up the same: *dystopian*.
Look at Autistic adults, living in the dystopia with ABA and Ivar Lovaas
at its beating heart. A "poet with a cattle prod," indeed.
