# RFC-AO-240 — Chapter 24: Avoiding Meltdown, Shutdown, Burn(out) and Sleep Deprivation Before They Start

Author: Kevin “Andie” Williams  
Status: Draft import  
Project: You Have Another Option  
Source: You Have Another Option_type_I.docx  
Chapter: 24  
RFC: 240  
Section: The Way Home  

---

## Chapter 24: Avoiding Meltdown, Shutdown, Burn(out) and Sleep Deprivation Before They Start

> If “keeping the peace” requires you to betray yourself, I am pretty
> sure that is not peace, and I am pretty sure it is not worth keeping.
> Perhaps it is time to try: “I am okay with your disappointment in
> me” - Rachael Mary Stafford

Masking shutdown and burnout are a living exile: a living hell. Most
importantly, we don’t choose this harrowing experience, it is put upon
us. We'll start with messages we as Autistic people regularly absorb:

- Environmental Message (you are broken)

- Social Message (you are shameful)

- Economic Message (you are unemployable)

- Medical Message (you are diseased)

- Social Media Message (you are inappropriate)

Whether you fully buy into these messages or not, because we are
bombarded with them constantly, they will impact you one way or the
other. <span class="mark">The better we are at recognizing them early,
the better we'll be at fighting back against them and minimizing the
health impacts they bring.</span>

#### Special Note on the Holidays with Family

You are all nature (or if you wish, God) ever needed you to be. You are
just how you were meant to be, beautiful and complete just as you are.
Anyone who doesn’t see that earns less and not more of your time. In
these gatherings, should you feel anything other than 100% support or
any dysregulation, honor that feeling by excusing yourself. Go for a
walk, step outside, or go to another room, and be with someone you
prefer to be with: you. The food and company weren’t that good, anyway.
Your wellbeing is more important than their impressions of your
behavior. If asked, say you didn’t feel good. If pressed say you’ll let
them know once you figure it out. You’ve done what’s required: you
showed up. They each must earn the right to your time beyond that. In
that way you honor the wonderful person nature (or God) created in you
in these holidays.
