# RFC-AO-370 — Chapter 37: For 50+ Years Old

Author: Kevin “Andie” Williams  
Status: Imported Draft  
Project: You Have Another Option  
Source: You Have Another Option_type_II.docx  
Chapter: 37  
RFC: 370

---

Congratulations, you’ve already beaten the odds in many ways. But you may feel more than just a little boxed around the ears. A little older than you should. A little more exhausted. Or maybe a lot of all of that. It’s never too late to learn a lot more about your needs, protect yourselves from relatives (older or younger!) and social acquaintances in the ways described earlier in the book.

It may be that you are recently diagnosed, or never really got the support you needed. It’s all the more important that you seek out Autistic communities and give and receive wisdom from others. Don’t be surprised if many of the things you learn in the Autistic community comes from people much younger than you. Part of that comes from pooling resources and that includes best practices and wisdom.

As we age, and this is true for all of us, we need more and have less elasticity to absorb the bumps and bruises life offers. Be extra kind to yourself. Also, be extra protective of yourself. You are an aging disabled person. It’s really ok if you don’t feel like masking or accommodating the needs of the neurotypical (or neurodivergent!) people around you like you used to. You’ve earned the right to withdraw a bit more, to protect yourself a bit more, and to relax a bit more. This is not the time in your life to be doing more and more for others. This is the time you can best be there for others by taking the very best care of yourself.

Online Community Resources:

https://aane.org/events/?_event_type=support-groups&_identity_post=age-50

https://www.theautisticcoach.com/
